feat: tls (#261)
libp2p/docs: content/concepts/secure-comm/tls.md

better security and faster performance than the algorithms used in TLS 1.2. TLS 1.3
also eliminates the use of less secure cryptographic techniques still used in TLS 1.2,
such as SHA-1.

  > Over the years, there have been vulnerabilities identified in a variety of encryption
  > algorithms. To guarantee safe communication, TLS 1.3 only supports
  > 5 cipher suites, as opposed to the 37 supported in TLS 1.2. They are:
  >
  > - TLS_CHACHA20_POLY1305_SHA256
  > - TLS_AES_128_GCM_SHA256
  > - TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384
  > - TLS_AES_128_CCM_8_SHA256
  > - TLS_AES_128_CCM_SHA256

In TLS 1.3, a client can include all the necessary information, including the key share,
in the first `ClientHello` message by assuming which key agreement algorithm the
server will choose due to the limited cipher suites. This saves one round trip as the server
can generate its key from the first message.

As a result, TLS 1.3 uses a new handshake protocol that allows for faster and more efficient
establishment of encrypted connections. TLS 1.3 also introduces new features, such as
certificate compression and support for cryptographic keys larger than 4096 bits.

> ## TLS 1.3 in libp2p

Reviewer: I think calling out the TLS version is high-level enough for a documentation page, but we definitely should link the spec (if we haven't already).

To use TLS 1.3 in libp2p, a peer must first establish a TLS 1.3 connection with another peer
using the handshake protocol. Once the handshake is complete, the peers can use the encrypted
connection to exchange data securely and privately.

### Handshake

> A TLS 1.3 handshake in libp2p conducts both key sharing and peer authentication
> in a single round trip. Peers must authenticate each other’s identity during the

Reviewer: Not sure what key sharing is supposed to mean.
```suggestion
libp2p uses TLS 1.3 handshake to establish a secure connection between two peers. 
Peers authenticate each other’s libp2p peer ID during the handshake.
```

> handshake. By extension, servers require client authentication during the TLS
> handshake and will abort if the client fails to authenticate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

TLS 1.3 is identified during protocol negotiation with the following protocol
ID: `/tls/1.0.0`.

> In libp2p, endpoints authenticate peers by encoding their public key into an X.509
> certificate extension, however, peers can use arbitrary key types and are not constrained
> to those for which the signing of an X.509 certificate is specified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In libp2p, peer authentication works by encoding the public key into the TLS certificate.
We designed the system such that we can authenticate key types that are usually not
supported by TLS stacks, such as sepc256k1 (which is a key type that can be used for
libp2p keys).
```

> {{< alert icon="💡" context="note" text="X.509 is an <a class=\"text-muted\" href=\"https://www.itu.int/en/Pages/default.aspx\"> ITU</a> standard defining the format of public key certificates that use asymmetric cryptography for authentication. Certificate extensions were introduced in version 3 of the X.509 standard, which is a field that offers a set of additional attributes that can be included in the certificate to provide more information about the certificate's subject, such as the certificate's intended purpose, the cryptographic algorithms that the certificate uses, and other relevant details."/>}}

Reviewer: That's not really relevant, and super old anyway. The RFC is from 2005.

For arbitrary key types, an endpoint needs to encode its host key using the
[libp2p public key extension](https://github.com/libp2p/specs/blob/master/tls/tls.md#libp2p-public-key-extension)
which is carried in a self-signed certificate to prove ownership of its host key.
The libp2p public key extension is an X.509 extension with the Object Identier
`1.3.6.1.4.1.53594.1.1`. A certificate must include the libp2p public key extension
to be marked valid.

The endpoint generates a signature using its private host key and shares it along with
its public host key for verification. The signature proves that the peer owned

> the private host key when signing the certificate.

Reviewer: That's very specific. I'd be ok with this just living in the specs, and not in the docs.

The public host allows the other peer to calculate the peer ID of the endpoint it
connects to. Failed authentication would immediately terminate the secure connection

> establishment.

Reviewer: When processing the certificate, nodes derive the peer ID from the public key that they received,
and clients check that it matches the peer ID of the server they intended to connect to.

    - "/concepts/secure-comm/tls"
---

## What is TLS?

TLS (Transport Layer Security) is a cryptographic protocol that establishes a
secure data channel. TLS provides encryption, authentication, and data integrity.

During the TLS handshake, a secure connection is established between a client
and a server. After the handshake completes, both sides have derived a key
(the TLS master secret) that's only known to the two parties and is then used to
encrypt application data sent over the channel.

### What is TLS 1.3?

TLS 1.3 is a new version of the TLS protocol, published in 2018 in
[RFC 8446](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8446). It brings several
improvements over TLS 1.2: the latency of a handshake was brought
down from 2 to 1 network round trips (in the typical case), the privacy
properties were improved by encrypting the certificates, and the protocol
was made simplified to reduce implementation complexity.

## TLS 1.3 in libp2p

**libp2p doesn't use TLS versions older than 1.3.**

### Handshake

> libp2p uses TLS 1.3 handshake to establish a secure connection between two peers.

Author: ```suggestion
libp2p uses the TLS 1.3 handshake to establish a secure connection between two peers.
```

    - "/concepts/secure-comm/tls"
---

## What is TLS?

TLS (Transport Layer Security) is a cryptographic protocol that establishes a
secure data channel. TLS provides encryption, authentication, and data integrity.

During the TLS handshake, a secure connection is established between a client
and a server. After the handshake completes, both sides have derived a key
(the TLS master secret) that's only known to the two parties and is then used to
encrypt application data sent over the channel.

### What is TLS 1.3?

TLS 1.3 is a new version of the TLS protocol, published in 2018 in
[RFC 8446](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8446). It brings several
improvements over TLS 1.2: the latency of a handshake was brought
down from 2 to 1 network round trips (in the typical case), the privacy
properties were improved by encrypting the certificates, and the protocol
was made simplified to reduce implementation complexity.

## TLS 1.3 in libp2p

**libp2p doesn't use TLS versions older than 1.3.** libp2p uses as extended

> version of TLS 1.3, referred to as TLS 1.3+.

Reviewer: Not really, we don't touch TLS internals.

To use TLS 1.3 in libp2p, a peer must first establish a TLS 1.3 connection with
another peer using the handshake protocol. Once the handshake is complete, the peers

> can use the encrypted connection to exchange data securely and privately.

Reviewer: That's how TLS always works, I find it confusing to call this out explicitly.

### Handshake

libp2p uses TLS 1.3 handshake to establish a secure connection between two peers.
Peers authenticate each other's libp2p peer ID during the handshake.

TLS 1.3 is identified during protocol negotiation with the following protocol
ID: `/tls/1.0.0`.

> In libp2p, peer authentication works by encoding the public key into the TLS certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Peer authentication works by encoding the public key into the TLS certificate.
```

We designed the system to authenticate key types usually not
supported by TLS stacks, such as sepc256k1 (a key type that can be used for
libp2p keys).

> > X.509 is an [ITU](https://www.itu.int/en/Pages/default.aspx) standard defining the format of public key certificates that use asymmetric cryptography for authentication. Certificate extensions were introduced in version 3 of the X.509 standard, which is a field that offers a set of additional attributes that can be included in the certificate to provide more information about the certificate's subject, such as the certificate's intended purpose, the cryptographic algorithms that the certificate uses, and other relevant details."

Reviewer: I'd remove this sentence, it's not really relevant that TLS uses x509 to encode certificates.

When processing the TLS certificate, nodes derive the peer ID from the public key that

> they received, and peers check that it matches the peer ID of the server they intend

Reviewer: ```suggestion
they received. The node initiating the connection checks that it matches the peer ID of the node it intended
```
